Kyle Smith: Hi there, you know, I have
Kyle Smith: totally forgot. I forgot to press record after being on pause and I just had this meeting with Raven coffee.
Kyle Smith: For an initial history and physical and I forgot to press record. So I'm just going to dictate this entire note to be transcribed.
Kyle Smith: And this should it should work and hopefully I won't forget to do that again.
Kyle Smith: Alright, so again this is a initial
Kyle Smith: history and physical for
Kyle Smith: Patient Raven coffee, date of birth, 12
Kyle Smith: She lives in 325 South Preston road Vinton Virginia 24179
Kyle Smith: This was a 45 minute
Kyle Smith: Interview, of which created the 50% of the time was dedicated to education and counseling.
Kyle Smith: Today's date you know is made the 12th 2020
Kyle Smith: History and history of present illness.
Kyle Smith: Or excuse me chief complaint was
Kyle Smith: Wants to get off of heroin that she was taking for opiate dependence API.
Kyle Smith: This is a 36 year old female
Kyle Smith: With
Kyle Smith: A long history of drug abuse dating dating back to
Kyle Smith: When she began using drugs.
Kyle Smith: With her older brothers smoking marijuana as a team.
Kyle Smith: She then developed
Kyle Smith: Some chronic back pain.
Kyle Smith: From degenerative disc disease.
Kyle Smith: In her
Kyle Smith: She visited a pain clinic in the Roanoke, Virginia region.
Kyle Smith: Where she received multiple injections lumbar epidural steroid injections SI joint injections trigger point injections and like
Kyle Smith: She
Kyle Smith: Was then prescribed lower tabs, where she was taken 10 milligrams three times a day.
Kyle Smith: Period. She
Kyle Smith: Would frequently run out of medicine.
Kyle Smith: Run out of the Lord tab. At what point she would go into withdrawal. She described flu like symptoms.
Kyle Smith: Nausea stomach pains diarrhea.
Kyle Smith: Night sweats shivering.
Kyle Smith: muscle aches.
Kyle Smith: Period. She
Kyle Smith: scratched at the clinic that she was going to was closed down at some point in 2017
Kyle Smith: And she was no longer able to to receive the Lord tab. So she started to use heroin and most recently she has been snorting heroin daily
Kyle Smith: She denies any IV drug use.
Kyle Smith: She denies other drug use, such as methamphetamines denies cocaine use tonight's current marijuana use denies current alcohol use denies current methadone use
Kyle Smith: Her last opiate use was snorting heroin yesterday about 5pm
Kyle Smith: She does claim to currently be in someone Raul with some nausea, diarrhea,
Kyle Smith: Runny nose.
Kyle Smith: She denies any real cravings for opiates. At this point, she denies any
Kyle Smith: Legal or marital problems related to her drug use.
Kyle Smith: She has never sought drug treatment before she has never used buprenorphine before
Kyle Smith: Under current medication, she denies any current medications. She has
Kyle Smith: An allergy to
Kyle Smith: Cipro flocks isn't
Kyle Smith: And he did. We need to double check that.
Kyle Smith: Medical history, she denies
Kyle Smith: Excuse me. She positive for heart murmur and degenerative disc disease negative for high blood pressure.
Kyle Smith: Excuse me. She also has a heart murmur, but a nice
Kyle Smith: Any heart valve abnormalities denies high blood pressure, denies heart disease denies corner Artery Disease denies asthma.
Kyle Smith: She is a smoker.
Kyle Smith: She denies diabetes denies kidney or liver disease denies hepatitis HIV.
Kyle Smith: Denies anemia.
Kyle Smith: Denies
Kyle Smith: Other neurologic disease, other than the degenerative disc disease.
Kyle Smith: She denies any recent hospitalizations.
Kyle Smith: Under psych history. She does note. She was diagnosed with depression, anxiety, at some point during her childhood, for which he received
Kyle Smith: So,
Kyle Smith: But that was in her 20s.
Kyle Smith: She was prescribed Xanax as well.
Kyle Smith: But she isn't. She's not currently taking that medication.
Kyle Smith: Under suicidality patient denies any thoughts of harming herself or others on their surgical history. She had your tubes.
Kyle Smith: As a child under family history it's family history of substance abuse, the patient has an extensive family history of substance abuse her
Kyle Smith: Mother.
Kyle Smith: died of heart disease, but also had
Kyle Smith: Extensive drug history. Her father also died of heart disease.
Kyle Smith: was incarcerated and had drug
Kyle Smith: Addiction.
Kyle Smith: She has a brother who recently.
Kyle Smith: Got out of alcohol rehab and she has another brother who had a drug addiction problems and has recovered. She has a first cousin who was also addicted to heroin at some point under Social History patient is married has no children.
Kyle Smith: She denies alcohol use. She is a smoker. She does work as a manager at CVS. She does not have any children. She is not pregnant.
Kyle Smith: She is not taking birth control.
Kyle Smith: Under physical exam.
Kyle Smith: This is a
Kyle Smith: Well, appearing middle aged female very tearful during the interview.
Kyle Smith: She
Kyle Smith: Cried pretty much the whole interview her nose was running
Kyle Smith: But she was no acute distress head was a traumatic normal so phallic she did have a nose ring and an earring.
Kyle Smith: Her
Kyle Smith: Eyes peoples were eco reactive to light laterally.
Kyle Smith: ears were normal
Kyle Smith: Those was running
Kyle Smith: Her mouth was normal.
Kyle Smith: Normal didn't Titian
Kyle Smith: Her
Kyle Smith: Chest on inspection was
Kyle Smith: Normal respiratory effort by laterally. No audible wheezing.
Kyle Smith: Asked her to press on her stomach hurts. She said her stomach was her abdomen was soft you did not detect any masses.
Kyle Smith: And no domino pain.
Kyle Smith: And then I examined hurt her upper and lower extremities.
Kyle Smith: Her arms were normal with no rashes examine the risks and AC areas, there were no track marks.
Kyle Smith: suggestive of IV drug use.
Kyle Smith: Vital Signs measured i had i did measure her pulse. She counted 24 beats and 15 seconds so 24 times four is what
Kyle Smith: 9096 yeah 96 beats per minute.
Kyle Smith: Constitutional symptoms.
Kyle Smith: Positive for
Kyle Smith: Night sweats.
Kyle Smith: Anxiety.
Kyle Smith: nose ring. Excuse me. Nose nose running
Kyle Smith: Also positive for diarrhea.
Kyle Smith: Sweating.
Kyle Smith: Positive for anxiety.
Kyle Smith: Negative for a headache, fever, visual changes I pain ear pain.
Kyle Smith: Hearing loss.
Kyle Smith: discharge from the ears ringing in the ears.
Kyle Smith: nose bleeds.
Kyle Smith: Know throat pain cough or breathing difficulty know chest pain, shortness of breath or wheezing.
Kyle Smith: Know, abdominal pain.
Kyle Smith: Nausea, vomiting, abdominal masses.
Kyle Smith: Know skin rashes.
Kyle Smith: Or masses cuts or bruises.
Kyle Smith: Mental Status.
Kyle Smith: When negative for confusion.
Kyle Smith: Or suicidality extremities. She was moving or she moves are extremities. There's no joint pain.
Kyle Smith: I did do under evaluations, we can do
Kyle Smith: The
Kyle Smith: I did the
Kyle Smith: Worksheet for DSM five
Kyle Smith: For diagnosis of opiate use disorder, she answered.
Kyle Smith: Each of these questions one through 11
Kyle Smith: Let me count the score for the DSM five worksheet. She did one too.
Yeah.
Kyle Smith: Yeah, she scored six
Kyle Smith: She had six or more symptoms.
Kyle Smith: Putting her in this severe category under DSM five criteria for diagnosis of opiate use disorder. So that would be opiate use disorder severe and then the clinical opiate withdrawal scale.
Kyle Smith: She scored
Kyle Smith: Moderate on the withdrawal scale.
Kyle Smith: With a score of 16
Kyle Smith: Under assessment and plan.
Kyle Smith: Assessment and playing 36 year old female with opiate use disorder severe
Kyle Smith: opiate dependency diagnosis code F 1120
Kyle Smith: We discussed opiate dependency at length.
Kyle Smith: I educated her on the
Kyle Smith: Physiologic nature of dependency.
Kyle Smith: We discussed how her continued use of opiates over the years, led to
Kyle Smith: an opiate dependency because of regulation of opiate receptors and how when those receptors are not filled
Kyle Smith: Patients like herself go into withdrawal.
Kyle Smith: I do think she meets the criteria for opiate dependency and we discussed the options for treatment.
Kyle Smith: Including methadone treatments abstinence treatments 12 step treatments. She was aware of these and knew that. Those were his were also open to her. I did.
Kyle Smith: Go and explain at length medication assisted treatment or MIT and the use of buprenorphine and counseling to help improve patients overall quality of life as well as approving mortality and
Kyle Smith: And
Kyle Smith: Went over briefly the literature and evidence behind MIT.
Kyle Smith: I then went and discussed at length how beep an orphan works to
Kyle Smith: Reduce withdrawal and cravings.
Kyle Smith: And at that our primary goal and the induction phase was to get people like yourself to feel better physically who are in withdrawal.
Kyle Smith: And that buprenorphine does a good job at reducing withdrawal symptoms.
Kyle Smith: I
Kyle Smith: Discuss with her at length, how to take up an orphan films.
Kyle Smith: And went through have the medication is is absorbed under the tongue so going Willie
Kyle Smith: I discussed with her side effects of buprenorphine including constipation, headache, nausea,
Kyle Smith: We discussed precipitated withdrawal at length.
Kyle Smith: I counseled her against the use of lenses.
Kyle Smith: Due to the risk of overdose and cardio respiratory arrest the risks of alcohol and potential liver damage I recommended that she not take other opiates or other illegal drugs while she's taken
Kyle Smith: buprenorphine.
Kyle Smith: We then moved on to discuss the importance of counseling.
Kyle Smith: During ma T treatment.
Kyle Smith: And how
Kyle Smith: Developing risk mitigation strategies and
Kyle Smith: And relapse prevention strategies are important for overall well being and treatment progress.
Kyle Smith: I
Kyle Smith: Went through the requirements.
Kyle Smith: For our treatment plan, including your drug screens and pregnancy screens.
Kyle Smith: I recommended that that she way that we would need to get some blood work, including CBC BNP lefties
Kyle Smith: We discussed pill counts.
Kyle Smith: To make sure she was taking your medication as prescribed.
Kyle Smith: We discussed the treatment course, including the induction period where I would see her once a week to make sure that we get the medication.
Kyle Smith: At the appropriate dose.
Kyle Smith: And then we discussed a taper up home induction protocol.
Kyle Smith: I recommended that she start on day one, with eight milligram Suboxone film sublingual Lee.
Kyle Smith: This afternoon, being day one and then tonight before bed if she's still experiencing withdrawal sentence she can take another half of film.
Kyle Smith: And then
Kyle Smith: Days two through seven. She'll take
Kyle Smith: One eight milligram film sublingual early in the morning.
Kyle Smith: I told her that
Kyle Smith: She should call 911 for any emergencies any
Kyle Smith: Shortness of breath, any
Kyle Smith: Alarming symptoms to call 911 or for any other
Kyle Smith: Side effects of medication or her things that she had questions about she could get in contact with the BHA virtual clinic or the care navigators
Kyle Smith: And that I would be available to answer any questions. The patient did give consent for for treatment.
Kyle Smith: With me
Kyle Smith: I feel that
Kyle Smith: She
Kyle Smith: Will do well look forward for the chance to continue to follow her treatment progress.
Kyle Smith: And let me know if you're missing any information from this transcription
Kyle Smith: I would be happy to fill in the details.
Kyle Smith: And hopefully won't forget to start the recording next time. Thank you.